---
slug: 'editor24-bbedit'
title: '(Finally) Honing in on a lifelong Code Editor: BBEdit'
authors: [suobset]
tags: ['Code', 'Hobbies']
---

# (Finally) Honing in on a lifelong Code Editor: BBEdit

For the longest time, I have been battling with a multitude of Code Editors that I'd love to fully invest in, from the ground up. I have been through the popularity of VS Code (which I get), the feature-rich IDEs from JetBrains, the glory of Atom and Sublime Text, and have actually spent most of my time in the terminal with Vim as well. At the end of it all: I choose to spend possibly the rest of my life with [BBEdit](https://bbedit.com/): a code editor that has existed for about as long as the Macintosh itself has.

<!-- truncate -->

## The Elephant(s) in the Room

It may seem a bit weird, especially seeing how popular [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) just is. The [2024 Stackoverflow Developer Survey](https://survey.stackoverflow.co/2024/) saw VS Code used buy about 73.6% of it's almost 60,000 developers (including people learning to code). It's closest sibling: Visual Studio, comes second place at 29.3%, terminal based modal editors like Vim come at 21.6%, and BBEdit ranks at 0.9%. Yet, out of all these editors, I have personally found that BBEdit seems to have had the most amount of thought and care put into the product, especially for people dealing with tons of text files.

Firstly, BBEdit is a Mac only editor. This already puts it at a disadvantage (popularity wise) when most of the world (not just United States) is on Windows and Linux for these tasks. My own programming journey started on Windows, and then Linux: for which VS Code